The get operation is used to access a resource.
Rest API defines operations that can manipulate resources, one of them being get which can retrieve
a resource post which creates a resource put which updates one and delete deletes a resource.
In this lesson, your rest API will perform the get operation.
Let's go through the process.
If a user if a consumer wants to access a resource, they will make a get request.
The Yury identifies the resource to be accessed.
The API defines an operation that is capable of accessing that resource.
It will use the information provided by the URI to access the resource in question.
And it will send back the response in JSON format.
JSON represents that data in the form of key value pairs.
Typically the API would retrieve the resources from some kind of external database, but for our purposes,
the contact resources are actually inside of the same application in the array list.
So our rest controller is going to act as the mediator between the resources that are going to be here
and the consumer that needs access.
The array list currently doesn't have any data inside of it, and because we don't have any create methods
just yet, what we're going to do is pre populate it with some data.
So here I'm going to say equal to arrays dot as list.
And we'll create one contact object over here.
We will have an idea of 1 to 3.
We'll call this guy, Jon Snow.
And we'll just give him a random phone number of four one, three, five, three, two.
We'll just say nine, four, three, whatever.
We'll create another contact object here.
We'll say four or five.
Six.
Tyrion Lannister.
And just change the phone number up.
We'll say 6134428213.
And let's create another resource.
Seven, eight, nine.
The Hound.
8973425642, whatever.
So the first thing we need to do is when a user makes a gut request on slash contact.
So here we'll say gut mapping.
When a user makes a request on slash contact, the URI they specify is going to include an ID.
As we wrap the ID in curly brackets.
That means we expect the consumer to define a variable inside of their path.
The handler method that receives this request.
Public void.
Get contact.
For now is not going to return anything.
We'll get back to this and it's going to access the variable inside of the path as a string.
So here we'll say path variable.
String ID.
For now, we're just going to print the ID that gets passed into the U.S..
Seem to have a mistake.
Oh, silly me.
Now, before starting this recording, I took the liberty of opening up a terminal.
If you're using a Windows computer, open up your command prompt.
And from here, the terminal will act as a consumer by making a get request using the Curl Command.
Now, if a consumer wants to access a resource, they need to specify a URI.
The URI identifies the location of a resource.
What we're going to do is say local host 8080.
Slash contact.
And.
And now the next thing we input, our rest API is going to interpret as a path variable.
We want to access the resource with the following ID.
Now nothing really happens.
It prints the path variable and in accordance with the rest API guideline, the URI should identify
the location of a resource.
But right now the API doesn't actually do anything upon receiving the location.
So based on the path variable, we need to return the JSON representation of the resource that they're
requesting.
Let's talk about the response body annotation.
The response body annotation serialize an object into JSON.
If we go back here and return a contact object.
Let's just import it.
Response body is going to serialize the object that we return into a JSON of key value pairs.
No.
This annotation can be applied at the class level or it can be applied at the level of each handler
method.
For now, we're just going to apply it at the level of this method, such that whatever object this
handler method returns needs to be converted into JSON.
Now, JSON is a universal way of communicating with other systems and the object we return must be serialized
into JSON before being sent back to the consumer.
So let's go ahead and just copy and paste.
The first object will set up some methods inside the service class after.
So let's just return new contact.
John Snow.
Back to our terminal.
We will use Curl to make a request.
Here you can see the object being returned was serialized into JSON before being returned thanks to
the response body annotation.
If you don't include it, our app is going to send back a plain old Java object and the recipient will
just have no idea what to do with it.
So if we were to curl that, it just shows an error not found.
So long story short, JSON is the universal way of communicating with other systems.
Which brings me to my next point.
Rest controller is basically the same thing as the controller annotation plus response body.
So if you're building a rest API instead of including response body to serialize the returned object
into JSON, you can just define your controller class as a rest controller and avoid that step.
So remember that I told you response body can also be applied at the class level.
And instead of doing that, we can just skip that step and just say Rest controller.
This naming also befits the fact that we're building a rest API.
So if I were to retry this, we'll curl.
Boom.
The response body annotation that exists behind the scenes serialize our object into JSON before sending
it back.
Here we can see that the JSON is just a bunch of key value pairs.
And one more thing.
It's not just the object that will be returning.
We're going to return a response entity which allows us to respond with data as well as a status code.
So here among the official Mozilla documentation for HTTP status codes.
These status codes, in my opinion, are useless.
You will almost never, ever use them.
So let's just jump over to the 200 category for now.
Now, any response that we send back in the 200 category means that the request was good and it was
successful.
200 OC is the most common.
It means, hey, we got your request and it was successful.
201 is most often used with post requests because what it means is, Hey, we got your request.
It was successful and a new resource was created as a result.
Now 202 means, hey, we got your request.
It's a good request.
It was successful and we're cuing it for processing, so we're not going to fulfill your requests right
away.
It's going to happen later.
And another common one is 204.
This means, hey, we got your request.
It was successful, but there's no data to really send back.
This would most often be used in a delete request.
Now there are others.
You can feel free to go through them yourself, but the ones I just presented are pretty much the most
common ones.
All right, so we'll go back here, and instead of returning just the object, we're going to return
a response entity.
And inside of generics, you can specify what type of data we are going to be sending back.
We're going to be sending back a contact.
Now in this case, your contact service implementation already contains a find index by ID function.
I set it up for you in the interest of time.
Integer streams of something already covered in the Java course.
So I'm not going to go through them here, but it doesn't really matter if you use streams or you could
have also used a regular for loop over here.
In any case, all it does is it goes through your contacts and finds one that matches the ID.
You can use a loop if you want.
Inside the interface, what we're going to do is bind any implementation into defining a get contact
by ID method.
Contact.
Get contact by ID.
And then we're going to override this method inside of the implementation.
We can override get contact by ID.
And here I can just return contact, repository, dot, get contact.
And we're going to get the contact at the index based on the ID that's provided.
Now back here, I can say contact.
Contact is equal to contact.
Service dot get contact by ID and then I'm going to return a response entity.
A new response entity.
And this response entity is going to encapsulate an object.
The object being returned will be serialized into JSON as it's being sent back to the consumer.
And we're also going to send back a status code of OC, so a HTTP status dot OC and the status code
OC translates to 200 to indicate that we received the request and it was successful.
All right.
Rerunning my application in debug mode.
Back to our terminal.
We will use Carl to make a request.
If a consumer wants to access a resource, need to specify a URI.
The URI identifies the location of a resource.
The following URI identifies the location of a contact resource with ID of 1 to 3.
And the API defines an operation that is capable of accessing the resource in question.
It uses the information provided by the URI, which is a string ID of 1 to 3 to try and find the resource
inside of the array list.
It should be able to find it all right.
It was able to get the resource.
And now here the resource is going to be serialized into JSON before being sent back.
So those are going to be your key value pairs and you can see that it sends back a status of 200.
Now as the consumer, I see that data has been returned, but I can't really see the status code.
So what we're going to do is go to Chrome.
And we're going to make that same request.
We'll say local host slash 80, 80 slash contact, slash, one, two, three.
Here we see the JSON that gets sent back.
If we go to the developer tools, more tools.
Developer tools go to the network.
Press refresh, we see a status of 200.
Now, this is a bit inconvenient.
So in the next video, we'll be downloading a software to make requests from.